# type(assets)
__type(assets)__

_underlying security_
* Stocks: Available returns on production of a good/service
* Currency: Liability of governemnts and banks
* Interest rates: Defined as a *Notional asset* in order to take a position
* Indexes: Measure of a set of stocks
* Commodities: Physical goods such as,
    * Soft commodities: sugar, cocoa, coffee ++
    * Grains and oilseeds: barley, corn cotton oats ++
    * Metals: copper, tin ++
    * Precious Metals: Au, Ag, Pl ++
    * Livestock: cattle, pork, chicken
    * Energy: crude oil, fuel oil ++

_instruments_

**Cash-and-Carry Markets**\
Au, Ag, Fx, T-bonds ++\
Borrow at risk-free, collateralise the (physical) underlying, buy, store and insure product until expiration. A key property of such a market is that knowledge of the future demand of the underlying does not affect the spread between cash and future/forward prices.
[Why? cash and future/forward price should move in tandem with information updates.]

**Price-Discovery Markets**\
Impossible to buy the underlying due to perishable nature, or unavailability.

**Expiration date**\
Before expiration, t<T,
$F(t)\neq S(t)$
$F(T) = S_T$

**Forwards**\
Linear instrument \
Obligation to buy/sell an underlying at expiration at a specified forward price. OTC trading and are custom made.

 **Futures**\
 Traded over formal exchanges. They are clear through clearing houses, to reduce default risk. They are *marked to market*, that is everyday the contract is settled and a new one is written - that means profits/losses are calculated daily.

 **Repos, Reverse Repos & Flexible Repos**\
 Ergo, a repurchase agreement. It is the repurchase of securities for the equivalent amount of cash, agreed on for a certain value and at a specified date. The price difference between the repurchase price and original is effectively the interest, or the repo rate. The buying of the security is the psuedo-lender, while the seller is the psuedo-borrower. The security in this case acts as the collateral of the loan.

 Another way of looking at this is like the spot sale + a forward. Spot sale transfers money to the borrower for legal transfer of the security; while the forward ensure repayment of the loan, and return of collateral.

 Three types of repos; overnight, term and open.
* overnight - one-day maturity transaction
* term - specified end date
* open - no end date\

Repo transaction occur via three mechanisms; specified delivery, tri-party, and hold-in-custody.

Repos are used to raised short-term capital, and are classified as a money market instrument.

Difference of the flexible repo are:
* convexity due to cash withdrawls
* formal written auction like trade
* enchanced documentation
* counterparties are the municipal bond issuers

++

**Options**\
European-type call option is the right to buy the underlying at strike, $K$. This right is at the expiration date T. The call option can be purchased at the premium price of $C_t$.

The European put option is the right to sell the underlying at a specified price.

American options are different in that they can be exercised anyime between writing and expiration of the contract.

Traders look to estimate $C_t$ before the option is written. A market price would emerge from the market.

**Option notation**\
We find a closed-form formula for $C_t$ that expresses it as a function of the underlying price.

If there are no fees, and bid-ask on $S_t$ and $C_t$ are zero, at expiry we expect one of two options;
* out-of-money: $S_T<K$
* in-the-money: $S_T>K$

Option holder will only exercise when it is profitable, therefore,
$C_T= max[S_T-K,0]$

**Swaps**\
Swap (and Swoptions), are priced by decomposition into forwards and options. It the simultaneous selling and purchasing of cash flows involving various currencies, interest rates, and a number of other financial assets.

**Simple interest rate swap**\








# type(derivatives)
